---
title: "Sharkey's Shootout"
source: "https://tiltforums.com/t/creating-a-rulesheet-for-sharkeys-shootout/345"
provider: "tf"
source_updated_at: "2024-10-25T17:29:44.597Z"
---
<small class="rulesheet-attribution">Source: Tilt Forums community rulesheet | Original thread: <a href="https://tiltforums.com/t/creating-a-rulesheet-for-sharkeys-shootout/345">link</a> | Updated: 2024-10-25T17:29:44.597Z | License/source terms remain with Tilt Forums and the original authors. | Reformatted for readability and mobile use.</small>

<div class="pinball-rulesheet remote-rulesheet tiltforums-rulesheet">
<h2 id="heading--gameinfo">Game Information &amp; Overview:</h2>
<ul>
<li>Manufacturer: Stern</li>
<li>Release Date: September 2000</li>
<li>Original Wiki Rulesheet hosted on <a href="//tiltforums.com/t/creating-a-rulesheet-for-sharkeys-shootout/345">Tilt Forums</a></li>
</ul>
<h2 id="heading--overview">Rules Overview:</h2>
<p>The skill shot is the center top lane. The initial skill shot score is 5,000,000 then increases by 5,000,000 each additional time. Hitting the skill shot will also start Bumper Pool.</p>
<p>Shooting certain shots increases the Prize Money value. You collect prize money (“winnings”) by beating opponents, spelling PAYOFF, and smaller unrelated amounts from jackpots and super jackpots.  Winnings are awarded during Bonus (x multiplier).  The under-ramp lane usually spots 2 PAYOFF letters.  It may also build the Prize Money value.</p>
<p>Advance Bonus X by completing CUE. Bonus X starts at 5x and increases by 3x every time the lanes are completed.</p>
<p>Spelling CUE also begins Bumper Pool. All bumpers are worth 25k for as long as they are hit often (a la Dance Contest in Party Zone). Shots to the hole near the bumpers reset the timer and increase the value. The value continues to increase up to at least 1,000,000 per bump, but is reset on the next ball or when bumper pool officially ends by timing out.  The middle blue target will reset the bumper pool timer. There is no visible timer but the pop bumpers will start to flash quickly as time approaches zero.</p>
<p>At the start of each ball Mystery is lit at the ramp. Shoot ramp to collect an award chosen by the Mystery Ball.  Awards include Light Extra Ball, Multiball, Multiple Millions, Light Post Saves, HurryUp and Jackpot. Relight mystery by spelling POOL at the Inlanes and outlanes.</p>
<p>An unlit ramp lights the Combos at several major shots. Apparently each shot has a different award but I’m not sure what each of these are.</p>
<p>The game utilizes virtual locks. You can shoot the far right loop shot with the green “lock” insert to virtually lock a ball or the inner loop shot to the left of it that says "Collect Combination. Once you have 3 virtual locks multiball will begin. All 4 major shots light to score Jackpots worth 5m. There is a Super Jackpot worth 5x jackpot accesses at least through the multiball play, by getting enough Jackpots (5 the first time then goes up by 1 up to 10) and then sending a ball through the inner right lane.  After each super, the jackpot value goes up by 1M to 10M.</p>
<p>If your current opponent is Tex (bottom guy), your jackpots will be augmented to 10M for that multiball (called Stampede Multiball).</p>
<p>For pool games, you can be in 8 ball or 9 ball.  You always start the game in 8 ball.  8 ball rules:  Complete all 7 drop targets then shoot the 8-ball scoop.  9 ball rules:  Complete the drop targets in order and then shoot the left orbit to score the 9-ball. NOTE:  Starting on drop target 3 or 4, the 9-ball shot will light as a combo shot to prematurely end the round.  I suggest you shoot this ASAP.  Regardless of which way you complete the games you still score a completion bonus and begin the Trick Shot round.</p>
<p>Trick Shot is a single ball mode where two adjacent drop targets on the bank will appear. The drop targets increase the value by 1.25m each, and reset with each hit in a different location on the bank, so for example, if you hit one, and your trickshot was at the starting 5m, you will then have a 6.25m trickshot, and If you hit them both at the same time, you will increase the mode by 2.5m to 7.5m, upon which the drops will reset with two in a different location. you can continue shooting for trickshots until a max of 30m. This value will carry forward ball-to-ball in subsequent trickshots, so it is not a bad strategy to try to increase this early on. A lock ball shot under the eight ball, or on the right orbit will collect the value and begin the next pool game. The most important thing about Trick Shot is this is where you change your pool game, usually from the sling shots. You really really want to be playing 9 ball most of the time as it’s far far easier to win, so try not to finish Trick Shot with 8 ball flashing.</p>
<p>Black Widow is lit by getting 25 spinner spins.  The next shot up the left orbit will stop the ball and serve it to the upper flipper for a shot at the drop target blocking the right lanes.  Completing the hurryup will light 1 (or more) locks if not lit. Shooting the spinner during the hurry up will reset the value/timer to 10m.</p>
<p>Sharkey’s also has user activated post saves, controlled by an additional set of buttons behind the flipper buttons. Each button works for the corresponding outlane and you can push both for a center post. You can relight the post save by spelling PAYOFF behind the drop targets or via mystery award. If the right post save is used in such a way that the ball is launched up by the post and lands in the shooter lane, the game has a special recognition for this called an “Airball” worth 5m.</p>
<p>Complete 5 Pool Games (beat 5 characters) to take on Jeanette Lee.  You have to beat her at both 8 ball and 9 ball.  After you beat her, you begin The Web. This is a 4-ball multiball mode but I’m not sure how scoring works.  My memory of this mode is that every shot is lit for your current Winnings value.  If you’re having a good game, this should be around 1M or so by the time you get here.  It’s a long ball saver and shots never unlight.   If during “The Web” wizard mode you complete five jackpot shots, you will receive an add-a-ball.  If you get here a 2nd or even 3rd time…  Well your winnings will be absolutely gigantic and this is how you score amazingly well on this game (2B+).</p>
</div>
